README.md, before:

# Swagger::Docs

Generates swagger-ui json files for rails apps with APIs. You add the swagger DSL to your controller classes and then run one rake task to generate the json files.

[![Gem Version](https://badge.fury.io/rb/swagger-docs.png)][gem]
[![Dependency Status](https://gemnasium.com/richhollis/swagger-docs.png?travis)][gemnasium]

[gem]: https://rubygems.org/gems/swagger-docs
[travis]: http://travis-ci.org/richhollis/swagger-docs
[gemnasium]: https://gemnasium.com/richhollis/swagger-docs
[coveralls]: https://coveralls.io/r/richhollis/swagger-docs


Here is an extract of the DSL from a user controller API class:

```ruby
swagger_controller :users, "User Management"

swagger_api :index do
  summary "Fetches all User items"
  notes "This lists all the active users"
  param :query, :page, :integer, :optional, "Page number"
  response :unauthorized
  response :not_acceptable
  response :requested_range_not_satisfiable
end
```

## Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

    gem 'swagger-docs'

And then execute:

    $ bundle

Or install it yourself as:

    $ gem install swagger-docs

## Usage

### Create Initializer

Create an initializer in config/initializers (e.g. swagger_docs.rb) and define your APIs:

```ruby
Swagger::Docs::Config.register_apis({
  "1.0" => {
    # the extension used for the API
    :api_extension_type => :json,
    # the output location where your .json files are written to
    :api_file_path => "public/api/v1/",
    # the URL base path to your API
    :base_path => "http://api.somedomain.com",
    # if you want to delete all .json files at each generation
    :clean_directory => false,
    # add custom attributes to api-docs
    :attributes => {
      :info => {
        "title" => "Swagger Sample App",
        "description" => "This is a sample description.",
        "termsOfServiceUrl" => "http://helloreverb.com/terms/",
        "contact" => "apiteam@wordnik.com",
        "license" => "Apache 2.0",
        "licenseUrl" => "http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html"
      }
    }
  }
})
```

#### Configuration options

The following table shows all the current configuration options and their defaults. The default will be used if you don't supply your own value.

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>Option</th>
<th>Description</th>
<th>Default</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>

<tr>
<td><b>api_extension_type</b></td>
<td>The extension, if necessary, used for your API - e.g. :json or :xml </td>
<td>nil</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td><b>api_file_path</b></td>
<td>The output file path where generated swagger-docs files are written to. </td>
<td>public/</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td><b>base_path</b></td>
<td>The URI base path for your API - e.g. api.somedomain.com</td>
<td>/</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td><b>base_api_controller</b></td>
<td>The base controller class your project uses; it or its subclasses will be where you call swagger_controller and swagger_api.</td>
<td>ActionController::Base</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td><b>clean_directory</b></td>
<td>When generating swagger-docs files this option specifies if the api_file_path should be cleaned first. This means that all files will be deleted in the output directory first before any files are generated.</td>
<td>false</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td><b>formatting</b></td>
<td>Specifies which formatting method to apply to the JSON that is written. Available options: :none, :pretty</td>
<td>:pretty</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td><b>camelize_model_properties</b></td>
<td>Camelizes property names of models. For example, a property name called first_name would be converted to firstName.</td>
<td>true</td>
</tr>

</tbody>
</table>


### Documenting a controller

```ruby
class Api::V1::UsersController < ApplicationController

  swagger_controller :users, "User Management"

  swagger_api :index do
    summary "Fetches all User items"
    notes "This lists all the active users"
    param :query, :page, :integer, :optional, "Page number"
    param :path, :nested_id, :integer, :optional, "Team Id"
    response :unauthorized
    response :not_acceptable, "The request you made is not acceptable"
    response :requested_range_not_satisfiable
  end

  swagger_api :show do
    summary "Fetches a single User item"
    param :path, :id, :integer, :optional, "User Id"
    response :success, "Success", :User
    response :unauthorized
    response :not_acceptable
    response :not_found
  end

  swagger_api :create do
    summary "Creates a new User"
    param :form, :first_name, :string, :required, "First name"
    param :form, :last_name, :string, :required, "Last name"
    param :form, :email, :string, :required, "Email address"
    param_list :form, :role, :string, :required, "Role", [ "admin", "superadmin", "user" ]
    response :unauthorized
    response :not_acceptable
  end

  swagger_api :update do
    summary "Updates an existing User"
    param :path, :id, :integer, :required, "User Id"
    param :form, :first_name, :string, :optional, "First name"
    param :form, :last_name, :string, :optional, "Last name"
    param :form, :email, :string, :optional, "Email address"
    param :form, :tag, :Tag, :required, "Tag object"
    response :unauthorized
    response :not_found
    response :not_acceptable
  end

  swagger_api :destroy do
    summary "Deletes an existing User item"
    param :path, :id, :integer, :optional, "User Id"
    response :unauthorized
    response :not_found
  end

  # Support for Swagger complex types:
  # https://github.com/wordnik/swagger-core/wiki/Datatypes#wiki-complex-types
  swagger_model :Tag do
    description "A Tag object."
    property :id, :integer, :required, "User Id"
    property :name, :string, :optional, "Name"
  end

end
```

### DRYing up common documentation

Suppose you have a header or a parameter that must be present on several controllers and methods. Instead of duplicating it on all the controllers you can do this on your API base controller:

```ruby
class Api::BaseController < ActionController::Base
  class << self
    Swagger::Docs::Generator::set_real_methods

    def inherited(subclass)
      super
      subclass.class_eval do
        setup_basic_api_documentation
      end
    end

    private
    def setup_basic_api_documentation
      [:index, :show, :create, :update, :delete].each do |api_action|
        swagger_api api_action do
          param :header, 'Authentication-Token', :string, :required, 'Authentication token'
        end
      end
    end
  end
end
```

And then use it as a superclass to all you API controllers. All the subclassed controllers will have the same documentation applied to them.

#### Alternate method

Using a block for the swagger_api definition:

```ruby
class Api::V1::UserController < Api::V1::BaseController

  swagger_controller :user, "Users"

  def self.add_common_params(api)
    api.param :form, "user[first_name]", :string, :optional, "Notes"
    api.param :form, "user[last_name]", :string, :optional, "Name"
    api.param :form, "user[email]", :string, :optional, "Email"
  end

  swagger_api :create do |api|
    summary "Create a new User item"
    Api::V1::UserController::add_common_params(api)
    response :unauthorized
    response :not_acceptable
    response :unprocessable_entity
  end
  
  swagger_api :update do |api|
    summary "Update an existing User item"
    Api::V1::UserController::add_common_params(api)
    response :unauthorized
    response :not_acceptable
    response :unprocessable_entity
  end
end
```

### DSL Methods

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>Method</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>

<tr>
<td>summary</td>
<td>The summary of the API</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>notes (optional)</td>
<td>The associated notes for the API</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>param</td>
<td>Standard API Parameter</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>param_list</td>
<td>Standard API Enum/List parameter.</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>response</td>
<td>Takes a symbol or status code and passes it to `Rack::Utils.status_code`. The current list of status codes can be seen here: https://github.com/rack/rack/blob/master/lib/rack/utils.rb. An optional message can be added.</td>
</tr>

</tbody>
</table>

### Run rake task to generate docs

```
rake swagger:docs
```

Swagger-ui JSON files should now be present in your api_file_path (e.g. ./public/api/v1)

#### Additional logging for generation failures

Errors aren't displayed by default. To see all error messages use the ```SD_LOG_LEVEL``` environment variable when running the rake task:

```
SD_LOG_LEVEL=1 rake swagger:docs
```

Currently only constantize errors are shown.

Errors are written to ```$stderr```. Error logging methods can be found in ```Config``` and can be overridden for custom behaviour.

Thanks to **[@tomtt](https://github.com/tomtt/)** who originally suggested this idea in #81

### Sample

A sample Rails application where you can run the above rake command and view the output in swagger-ui can be found here:

https://github.com/richhollis/swagger-docs-sample

![Screen shot 1](https://github.com/richhollis/swagger-docs-sample/raw/master/swagger-docs-screenshot-2.png)


### Advanced Customization

#### Inheriting from a custom Api controller

By default swagger-docs is applied to controllers inheriting from ApplicationController.
If this is not the case for your application, use this snippet in your initializer
_before_ calling Swagger::Docs::Config#register_apis(...).

```ruby
class Swagger::Docs::Config
  def self.base_api_controller; Api::ApiController end
end
```

#### Custom route discovery for supporting Rails Engines

By default, swagger-docs finds controllers by traversing routes in `Rails.application`.
To override this, you can customize the `base_application` config in an initializer:

```ruby
class Swagger::Docs::Config
  def self.base_application; Api::Engine end
end
```

If you want swagger to find controllers in `Rails.application` and/or multiple
engines you can override `base_application` to return an array. 

```ruby
class Swagger::Docs::Config
  def self.base_application; [Rails.application, Api::Engine, SomeOther::Engine] end
end
```

Or, if you prefer you can override `base_applications` for this purpose. The plural
`base_applications` takes precedence over `base_application` and MUST return an
array.

```ruby
class Swagger::Docs::Config
  def self.base_applications; [Rails.application, Api::Engine, SomeOther::Engine] end
end
```

#### Transforming the `path` variable

Swagger allows a distinction between the API documentation server and the hosted API
server through the `path` variable (see [Swagger: No server Integrations](https://github.com/wordnik/swagger-core/wiki/No-server-Integrations)). To override the default swagger-docs behavior, you can provide a `transform_path`
class method in your initializer:

```ruby
class Swagger::Docs::Config
  def self.transform_path(path, api_version)
    "http://example.com/api-docs/#{api_version}/#{path}"
  end
end
```

The transformation will be applied to all API `path` values in the generated `api-docs.json` file.

#### Precompile

It is best-practice *not* to keep documentation in version control. An easy way
to integrate swagger-docs into a conventional deployment setup (e.g. capistrano,
chef, or opsworks) is to piggyback on the 'assets:precompile' rake task. And don't forget
to add your api documentation directory to .gitignore in this case.

```ruby
#Rakefile or lib/task/precompile_overrides.rake
namespace :assets do
  task :precompile do
    Rake::Task['assets:precompile'].invoke
    Rake::Task['swagger:docs'].invoke
  end
end
```

### Output files

api-docs.json output:


```json
{
  "apiVersion": "1.0",
  "swaggerVersion": "1.2",
  "basePath": "/api/v1",
  "apis": [
    {
      "path": "/users.{format}",
      "description": "User Management"
    }
  ]
}
```

users.json output:

```json
{
  "apiVersion": "1.0",
  "swaggerVersion": "1.2",
  "basePath": "http://api.somedomain.com/api/v1/",
  "resourcePath": "/users",
  "apis": [
    {
      "path": "/users",
      "operations": [
        {
          "summary": "Fetches all User items",
          "parameters": [
            {
              "paramType": "query",
              "name": "page",
              "type": "integer",
              "description": "Page number",
              "required": false
            }
          ],
          "responseMessages": [
            {
              "code": 401,
              "message": "Unauthorized"
            },
            {
              "code": 406,
              "message": "The request you made is not acceptable"
            },
            {
              "code": 416,
              "message": "Requested Range Not Satisfiable"
            }
          ],
          "method": "get",
          "nickname": "Api::V1::Users#index"
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "path": "nested/{nested_id}/sample",
      "operations": [
        {
          "summary": "Fetches all User items",
          "parameters": [
            {
              "paramType": "query",
              "name": "page",
              "type": "integer",
              "description": "Page number",
              "required": false
            },
            {
              "paramType": "path",
              "name": "nested_id",
              "type": "integer",
              "description": "Team Id",
              "required": false
            }
          ],
          "responseMessages": [
            {
              "code": 401,
              "message": "Unauthorized"
            },
            {
              "code": 406,
              "message": "The request you made is not acceptable"
            },
            {
              "code": 416,
              "message": "Requested Range Not Satisfiable"
            }
          ],
          "method": "get",
          "nickname": "Api::V1::Users#index"
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "path": "/users",
      "operations": [
        {
          "summary": "Creates a new User",
          "parameters": [
            {
              "paramType": "form",
              "name": "first_name",
              "type": "string",
              "description": "First name",
              "required": true
            },
            {
              "paramType": "form",
              "name": "last_name",
              "type": "string",
              "description": "Last name",
              "required": true
            },
            {
              "paramType": "form",
              "name": "email",
              "type": "string",
              "description": "Email address",
              "required": true
            }
          ],
          "responseMessages": [
            {
              "code": 401,
              "message": "Unauthorized"
            },
            {
              "code": 406,
              "message": "Not Acceptable"
            }
          ],
          "method": "post",
          "nickname": "Api::V1::Users#create"
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "path": "/users/{id}",
      "operations": [
        {
          "summary": "Fetches a single User item",
          "parameters": [
            {
              "paramType": "path",
              "name": "id",
              "type": "integer",
              "description": "User Id",
              "required": false
            }
          ],
          "responseMessages": [
            {
              "code": 401,
              "message": "Unauthorized"
            },
            {
              "code": 404,
              "message": "Not Found"
            },
            {
              "code": 406,
              "message": "Not Acceptable"
            }
          ],
          "method": "get",
          "nickname": "Api::V1::Users#show"
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "path": "/users/{id}",
      "operations": [
        {
          "summary": "Updates an existing User",
          "parameters": [
            {
              "paramType": "path",
              "name": "id",
              "type": "integer",
              "description": "User Id",
              "required": true
            },
            {
              "paramType": "form",
              "name": "first_name",
              "type": "string",
              "description": "First name",
              "required": false
            },
            {
              "paramType": "form",
              "name": "last_name",
              "type": "string",
              "description": "Last name",
              "required": false
            },
            {
              "paramType": "form",
              "name": "email",
              "type": "string",
              "description": "Email address",
              "required": false
            },
            {
              "paramType": "form",
              "name": "tag",
              "type": "Tag",
              "description": "Tag object",
              "required": true
            }
          ],
          "responseMessages": [
            {
              "code": 401,
              "message": "Unauthorized"
            },
            {
              "code": 404,
              "message": "Not Found"
            },
            {
              "code": 406,
              "message": "Not Acceptable"
            }
          ],
          "method": "put",
          "nickname": "Api::V1::Users#update"
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "path": "/users/{id}",
      "operations": [
        {
          "summary": "Deletes an existing User item",
          "parameters": [
            {
              "paramType": "path",
              "name": "id",
              "type": "integer",
              "description": "User Id",
              "required": false
            }
          ],
          "responseMessages": [
            {
              "code": 401,
              "message": "Unauthorized"
            },
            {
              "code": 404,
              "message": "Not Found"
            }
          ],
          "method": "delete",
          "nickname": "Api::V1::Users#destroy"
        }
      ]
    }
  ],
  "models": {
    "Tag": {
      "id": "Tag",
      "required": [
        "id"
      ],
      "properties": {
        "id": {
          "type": "integer",
          "description": "User Id"
        },
        "name": {
          "type": "string",
          "description": "Name",
          "foo": "test"
        }
      },
      "description": "A Tag object."
    }
  }
}
```

## Thanks to our contributors

Thanks to jdar, fotinakis, stevschmid, ldnunes, aaronrenner and all of our contributors for making swagger-docs even better.

## Related Projects

**[@fotinakis](https://github.com/fotinakis/)** has created Swagger::Blocks - a DSL for pure Ruby code blocks: [swagger-blocks](https://github.com/fotinakis/swagger-blocks/)

## More About Me

[Rich Hollis](http://richhollis.co.uk)

## Contributing

When raising a Pull Request please ensure that you have provided good test coverage for the request you are making.

1. Fork it
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b my-new-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -am 'Add some feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin my-new-feature`)
5. Create new Pull Request

Commit message:

Add link for cors middleware

README.md, after:

# Swagger::Docs

Generates swagger-ui json files for rails apps with APIs. You add the swagger DSL to your controller classes and then run one rake task to generate the json files.

[![Gem Version](https://badge.fury.io/rb/swagger-docs.png)][gem]
[![Dependency Status](https://gemnasium.com/richhollis/swagger-docs.png?travis)][gemnasium]

[gem]: https://rubygems.org/gems/swagger-docs
[travis]: http://travis-ci.org/richhollis/swagger-docs
[gemnasium]: https://gemnasium.com/richhollis/swagger-docs
[coveralls]: https://coveralls.io/r/richhollis/swagger-docs


Here is an extract of the DSL from a user controller API class:

```ruby
swagger_controller :users, "User Management"

swagger_api :index do
  summary "Fetches all User items"
  notes "This lists all the active users"
  param :query, :page, :integer, :optional, "Page number"
  response :unauthorized
  response :not_acceptable
  response :requested_range_not_satisfiable
end
```

## Installation

Add this line to your application's Gemfile:

    gem 'swagger-docs'

And then execute:

    $ bundle

Or install it yourself as:

    $ gem install swagger-docs

## Usage

### Create Initializer

Create an initializer in config/initializers (e.g. swagger_docs.rb) and define your APIs:

```ruby
Swagger::Docs::Config.register_apis({
  "1.0" => {
    # the extension used for the API
    :api_extension_type => :json,
    # the output location where your .json files are written to
    :api_file_path => "public/api/v1/",
    # the URL base path to your API
    :base_path => "http://api.somedomain.com",
    # if you want to delete all .json files at each generation
    :clean_directory => false,
    # add custom attributes to api-docs
    :attributes => {
      :info => {
        "title" => "Swagger Sample App",
        "description" => "This is a sample description.",
        "termsOfServiceUrl" => "http://helloreverb.com/terms/",
        "contact" => "apiteam@wordnik.com",
        "license" => "Apache 2.0",
        "licenseUrl" => "http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.html"
      }
    }
  }
})
```

#### Configuration options

The following table shows all the current configuration options and their defaults. The default will be used if you don't supply your own value.

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>Option</th>
<th>Description</th>
<th>Default</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>

<tr>
<td><b>api_extension_type</b></td>
<td>The extension, if necessary, used for your API - e.g. :json or :xml </td>
<td>nil</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td><b>api_file_path</b></td>
<td>The output file path where generated swagger-docs files are written to. </td>
<td>public/</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td><b>base_path</b></td>
<td>The URI base path for your API - e.g. api.somedomain.com</td>
<td>/</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td><b>base_api_controller</b></td>
<td>The base controller class your project uses; it or its subclasses will be where you call swagger_controller and swagger_api.</td>
<td>ActionController::Base</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td><b>clean_directory</b></td>
<td>When generating swagger-docs files this option specifies if the api_file_path should be cleaned first. This means that all files will be deleted in the output directory first before any files are generated.</td>
<td>false</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td><b>formatting</b></td>
<td>Specifies which formatting method to apply to the JSON that is written. Available options: :none, :pretty</td>
<td>:pretty</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td><b>camelize_model_properties</b></td>
<td>Camelizes property names of models. For example, a property name called first_name would be converted to firstName.</td>
<td>true</td>
</tr>

</tbody>
</table>


### Documenting a controller

```ruby
class Api::V1::UsersController < ApplicationController

  swagger_controller :users, "User Management"

  swagger_api :index do
    summary "Fetches all User items"
    notes "This lists all the active users"
    param :query, :page, :integer, :optional, "Page number"
    param :path, :nested_id, :integer, :optional, "Team Id"
    response :unauthorized
    response :not_acceptable, "The request you made is not acceptable"
    response :requested_range_not_satisfiable
  end

  swagger_api :show do
    summary "Fetches a single User item"
    param :path, :id, :integer, :optional, "User Id"
    response :success, "Success", :User
    response :unauthorized
    response :not_acceptable
    response :not_found
  end

  swagger_api :create do
    summary "Creates a new User"
    param :form, :first_name, :string, :required, "First name"
    param :form, :last_name, :string, :required, "Last name"
    param :form, :email, :string, :required, "Email address"
    param_list :form, :role, :string, :required, "Role", [ "admin", "superadmin", "user" ]
    response :unauthorized
    response :not_acceptable
  end

  swagger_api :update do
    summary "Updates an existing User"
    param :path, :id, :integer, :required, "User Id"
    param :form, :first_name, :string, :optional, "First name"
    param :form, :last_name, :string, :optional, "Last name"
    param :form, :email, :string, :optional, "Email address"
    param :form, :tag, :Tag, :required, "Tag object"
    response :unauthorized
    response :not_found
    response :not_acceptable
  end

  swagger_api :destroy do
    summary "Deletes an existing User item"
    param :path, :id, :integer, :optional, "User Id"
    response :unauthorized
    response :not_found
  end

  # Support for Swagger complex types:
  # https://github.com/wordnik/swagger-core/wiki/Datatypes#wiki-complex-types
  swagger_model :Tag do
    description "A Tag object."
    property :id, :integer, :required, "User Id"
    property :name, :string, :optional, "Name"
  end

end
```

### DRYing up common documentation

Suppose you have a header or a parameter that must be present on several controllers and methods. Instead of duplicating it on all the controllers you can do this on your API base controller:

```ruby
class Api::BaseController < ActionController::Base
  class << self
    Swagger::Docs::Generator::set_real_methods

    def inherited(subclass)
      super
      subclass.class_eval do
        setup_basic_api_documentation
      end
    end

    private
    def setup_basic_api_documentation
      [:index, :show, :create, :update, :delete].each do |api_action|
        swagger_api api_action do
          param :header, 'Authentication-Token', :string, :required, 'Authentication token'
        end
      end
    end
  end
end
```

And then use it as a superclass to all you API controllers. All the subclassed controllers will have the same documentation applied to them.

#### Alternate method

Using a block for the swagger_api definition:

```ruby
class Api::V1::UserController < Api::V1::BaseController

  swagger_controller :user, "Users"

  def self.add_common_params(api)
    api.param :form, "user[first_name]", :string, :optional, "Notes"
    api.param :form, "user[last_name]", :string, :optional, "Name"
    api.param :form, "user[email]", :string, :optional, "Email"
  end

  swagger_api :create do |api|
    summary "Create a new User item"
    Api::V1::UserController::add_common_params(api)
    response :unauthorized
    response :not_acceptable
    response :unprocessable_entity
  end
  
  swagger_api :update do |api|
    summary "Update an existing User item"
    Api::V1::UserController::add_common_params(api)
    response :unauthorized
    response :not_acceptable
    response :unprocessable_entity
  end
end
```

### DSL Methods

<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>Method</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>

<tr>
<td>summary</td>
<td>The summary of the API</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>notes (optional)</td>
<td>The associated notes for the API</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>param</td>
<td>Standard API Parameter</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>param_list</td>
<td>Standard API Enum/List parameter.</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>response</td>
<td>Takes a symbol or status code and passes it to `Rack::Utils.status_code`. The current list of status codes can be seen here: https://github.com/rack/rack/blob/master/lib/rack/utils.rb. An optional message can be added.</td>
</tr>

</tbody>
</table>

### Run rake task to generate docs

```
rake swagger:docs
```

Swagger-ui JSON files should now be present in your api_file_path (e.g. ./public/api/v1)

#### Additional logging for generation failures

Errors aren't displayed by default. To see all error messages use the ```SD_LOG_LEVEL``` environment variable when running the rake task:

```
SD_LOG_LEVEL=1 rake swagger:docs
```

Currently only constantize errors are shown.

Errors are written to ```$stderr```. Error logging methods can be found in ```Config``` and can be overridden for custom behaviour.

Thanks to **[@tomtt](https://github.com/tomtt/)** who originally suggested this idea in #81

### Sample

A sample Rails application where you can run the above rake command and view the output in swagger-ui can be found here:

https://github.com/richhollis/swagger-docs-sample

![Screen shot 1](https://github.com/richhollis/swagger-docs-sample/raw/master/swagger-docs-screenshot-2.png)


### Advanced Customization

#### Inheriting from a custom Api controller

By default swagger-docs is applied to controllers inheriting from ApplicationController.
If this is not the case for your application, use this snippet in your initializer
_before_ calling Swagger::Docs::Config#register_apis(...).

```ruby
class Swagger::Docs::Config
  def self.base_api_controller; Api::ApiController end
end
```

#### Custom route discovery for supporting Rails Engines

By default, swagger-docs finds controllers by traversing routes in `Rails.application`.
To override this, you can customize the `base_application` config in an initializer:

```ruby
class Swagger::Docs::Config
  def self.base_application; Api::Engine end
end
```

If you want swagger to find controllers in `Rails.application` and/or multiple
engines you can override `base_application` to return an array. 

```ruby
class Swagger::Docs::Config
  def self.base_application; [Rails.application, Api::Engine, SomeOther::Engine] end
end
```

Or, if you prefer you can override `base_applications` for this purpose. The plural
`base_applications` takes precedence over `base_application` and MUST return an
array.

```ruby
class Swagger::Docs::Config
  def self.base_applications; [Rails.application, Api::Engine, SomeOther::Engine] end
end
```

#### Transforming the `path` variable

Swagger allows a distinction between the API documentation server and the hosted API
server through the `path` variable (see [Swagger: No server Integrations](https://github.com/wordnik/swagger-core/wiki/No-server-Integrations)). To override the default swagger-docs behavior, you can provide a `transform_path`
class method in your initializer:

```ruby
class Swagger::Docs::Config
  def self.transform_path(path, api_version)
    "http://example.com/api-docs/#{api_version}/#{path}"
  end
end
```

The transformation will be applied to all API `path` values in the generated `api-docs.json` file.

#### Precompile

It is best-practice *not* to keep documentation in version control. An easy way
to integrate swagger-docs into a conventional deployment setup (e.g. capistrano,
chef, or opsworks) is to piggyback on the 'assets:precompile' rake task. And don't forget
to add your api documentation directory to .gitignore in this case.

```ruby
#Rakefile or lib/task/precompile_overrides.rake
namespace :assets do
  task :precompile do
    Rake::Task['assets:precompile'].invoke
    Rake::Task['swagger:docs'].invoke
  end
end
```

### Output files

api-docs.json output:


```json
{
  "apiVersion": "1.0",
  "swaggerVersion": "1.2",
  "basePath": "/api/v1",
  "apis": [
    {
      "path": "/users.{format}",
      "description": "User Management"
    }
  ]
}
```

users.json output:

```json
{
  "apiVersion": "1.0",
  "swaggerVersion": "1.2",
  "basePath": "http://api.somedomain.com/api/v1/",
  "resourcePath": "/users",
  "apis": [
    {
      "path": "/users",
      "operations": [
        {
          "summary": "Fetches all User items",
          "parameters": [
            {
              "paramType": "query",
              "name": "page",
              "type": "integer",
              "description": "Page number",
              "required": false
            }
          ],
          "responseMessages": [
            {
              "code": 401,
              "message": "Unauthorized"
            },
            {
              "code": 406,
              "message": "The request you made is not acceptable"
            },
            {
              "code": 416,
              "message": "Requested Range Not Satisfiable"
            }
          ],
          "method": "get",
          "nickname": "Api::V1::Users#index"
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "path": "nested/{nested_id}/sample",
      "operations": [
        {
          "summary": "Fetches all User items",
          "parameters": [
            {
              "paramType": "query",
              "name": "page",
              "type": "integer",
              "description": "Page number",
              "required": false
            },
            {
              "paramType": "path",
              "name": "nested_id",
              "type": "integer",
              "description": "Team Id",
              "required": false
            }
          ],
          "responseMessages": [
            {
              "code": 401,
              "message": "Unauthorized"
            },
            {
              "code": 406,
              "message": "The request you made is not acceptable"
            },
            {
              "code": 416,
              "message": "Requested Range Not Satisfiable"
            }
          ],
          "method": "get",
          "nickname": "Api::V1::Users#index"
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "path": "/users",
      "operations": [
        {
          "summary": "Creates a new User",
          "parameters": [
            {
              "paramType": "form",
              "name": "first_name",
              "type": "string",
              "description": "First name",
              "required": true
            },
            {
              "paramType": "form",
              "name": "last_name",
              "type": "string",
              "description": "Last name",
              "required": true
            },
            {
              "paramType": "form",
              "name": "email",
              "type": "string",
              "description": "Email address",
              "required": true
            }
          ],
          "responseMessages": [
            {
              "code": 401,
              "message": "Unauthorized"
            },
            {
              "code": 406,
              "message": "Not Acceptable"
            }
          ],
          "method": "post",
          "nickname": "Api::V1::Users#create"
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "path": "/users/{id}",
      "operations": [
        {
          "summary": "Fetches a single User item",
          "parameters": [
            {
              "paramType": "path",
              "name": "id",
              "type": "integer",
              "description": "User Id",
              "required": false
            }
          ],
          "responseMessages": [
            {
              "code": 401,
              "message": "Unauthorized"
            },
            {
              "code": 404,
              "message": "Not Found"
            },
            {
              "code": 406,
              "message": "Not Acceptable"
            }
          ],
          "method": "get",
          "nickname": "Api::V1::Users#show"
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "path": "/users/{id}",
      "operations": [
        {
          "summary": "Updates an existing User",
          "parameters": [
            {
              "paramType": "path",
              "name": "id",
              "type": "integer",
              "description": "User Id",
              "required": true
            },
            {
              "paramType": "form",
              "name": "first_name",
              "type": "string",
              "description": "First name",
              "required": false
            },
            {
              "paramType": "form",
              "name": "last_name",
              "type": "string",
              "description": "Last name",
              "required": false
            },
            {
              "paramType": "form",
              "name": "email",
              "type": "string",
              "description": "Email address",
              "required": false
            },
            {
              "paramType": "form",
              "name": "tag",
              "type": "Tag",
              "description": "Tag object",
              "required": true
            }
          ],
          "responseMessages": [
            {
              "code": 401,
              "message": "Unauthorized"
            },
            {
              "code": 404,
              "message": "Not Found"
            },
            {
              "code": 406,
              "message": "Not Acceptable"
            }
          ],
          "method": "put",
          "nickname": "Api::V1::Users#update"
        }
      ]
    },
    {
      "path": "/users/{id}",
      "operations": [
        {
          "summary": "Deletes an existing User item",
          "parameters": [
            {
              "paramType": "path",
              "name": "id",
              "type": "integer",
              "description": "User Id",
              "required": false
            }
          ],
          "responseMessages": [
            {
              "code": 401,
              "message": "Unauthorized"
            },
            {
              "code": 404,
              "message": "Not Found"
            }
          ],
          "method": "delete",
          "nickname": "Api::V1::Users#destroy"
        }
      ]
    }
  ],
  "models": {
    "Tag": {
      "id": "Tag",
      "required": [
        "id"
      ],
      "properties": {
        "id": {
          "type": "integer",
          "description": "User Id"
        },
        "name": {
          "type": "string",
          "description": "Name",
          "foo": "test"
        }
      },
      "description": "A Tag object."
    }
  }
}
```

## Thanks to our contributors

Thanks to jdar, fotinakis, stevschmid, ldnunes, aaronrenner and all of our contributors for making swagger-docs even better.

## Related Projects

**[@fotinakis](https://github.com/fotinakis/)** has created Swagger::Blocks - a DSL for pure Ruby code blocks: [swagger-blocks](https://github.com/fotinakis/swagger-blocks/)

A [cors rack middleware for testing swagger apis](https://gist.github.com/richhollis/b98a8b0599860145ad86) designed to be used in Rails development environments.


## More About Me

[Rich Hollis](http://richhollis.co.uk)

## Contributing

When raising a Pull Request please ensure that you have provided good test coverage for the request you are making.

1. Fork it
2. Create your feature branch (`git checkout -b my-new-feature`)
3. Commit your changes (`git commit -am 'Add some feature'`)
4. Push to the branch (`git push origin my-new-feature`)
5. Create new Pull Request
